# var was modified in a subshell. That change might be lost.

### Problematic code:

There are many ways of accidentally creating subshells, but a common one is piping to a loop:

    n=0
    printf "%s\n" {1..10} | while read i; do (( n+=i )); done
    echo $n

### Correct code:

    # Bash specific:
    n=0
    while read i; do (( n+=i )); done <   <(printf "%s\n" {1..10})
    echo $n

In `sh`, a temp file can be used instead of process substitution. 

### Rationale:

Variables set in subshells are not available outside the subshell. This is a wide topic, and better described on the [Wooledge Bash Wiki](http://mywiki.wooledge.org/BashFAQ/024).

Here are some constructs that cause subshells (shellcheck may not warn about all of them). In each case, you can replace `subshell1` by a command or function that sets a variable, e.g. simply `var=foo`, and the variable will appear to be unset after the command is run. Similarly, you can replace `regular` with `var=foo`, and it will be set afterwards:
    
Pipelines:

    subshell1 | subshell2 | subshell3    # Bash, Dash, Ash
    subshell1 | subshell2 | regular      # Ksh, Zsh

Command substitution:

    regular "$(subshell1)" "`subshell2`"

Process substitution: 

    regular <(subshell1) >(subshell2)

Some forms of grouping:

    ( subshell )
    { regular; }

Backgrounding:

    subshell1 &
    subshell2 &

Anything executed by external processes:

    find . -exec subshell1 {} \;
    find . -print0 | xargs -0 subshell2
    sudo subshell3
    su -c subshell4

This applies not only to setting variables, but also setting shell options and changing directories. 

### Contraindications

You can ignore this error if you don't care that the changes aren't reflected, because work on the value branches and shouldn't be recombined.